---
date: '2021-01-13T22:11:00+09:00'
tags: [ 'opfor', '5e', 'wwn' ]
---

## Creatures with Numbers

I was considering the SRD [creatures](https://laconi.co/monsters_by_name.html) I had turned from Markdown to HTML in [laconi.co](https://laconi.co), and then I was looking at the [Wolves of God](20210111.html?f=cwn) post I had written.

The [Worlds Without Number](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1637945166/worlds-without-number) beta says:

> In particular, monsters from the B/X, BECMI, 1e, 2e, and Rules Cyclopedia editions of the world’s best-selling RPG can be imported with no more effort than subtracting their Armor Class ratings from 20 to get an ascending AC and subtracting their roll to hit AC 0 from 20 to get their attack bonus.
Foes from that game’s third edition, 3.5, 4e, and 5e don’t translate so well due to different hit point and attack scaling, but hints can be taken from their stat blocks, or they can be used as inspirations for generating a similar creature in this game.

With the work on [laconi.co](https://laconi.co) I had in hand, all the SRD creatures in Markdown. It felt like a healthy challenge to write a converter.

5th Edition SRD Goblin:

<pre>
# Goblin

*Small humanoid (goblinoid), neutral evil*

**Armor Class** 15 (leather armor, shield)

**Hit Points** 7 (2d6)

**Morale** 7 (9 with leader)

**Speed** 30 ft.

| STR    | DEX     | CON     | INT     | WIS    | CHA    |
|--------|---------|---------|---------|--------|--------|
| 8 (-1) | 14 (+2) | 10 (+0) | 10 (+0) | 8 (-1) | 8 (-1) |

**Skills** Stealth +6

**Senses** darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 9

**Languages** Common, Goblin

**Challenge** 1/4 (50 XP)

***Nimble Escape.*** The goblin can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action on each of its turns.

## Actions

***Scimitar.*** *Melee Weapon Attack:* +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. *Hit:* 5 (1d6+2) slashing damage.

***Shortbow.*** *Ranged Weapon Attack:* +4 to hit, range 80/320 ft., one target. *Hit:* 5 (1d6+2) piercing damage.
</pre>

Worlds Without Numbers converted Goblin:

<pre>
## Goblin

*Small humanoid (goblinoid), neutral evil*

**Hit Dice** 2 (9 2d8)

**Armor Class** 15 (leather armor, shield)

| STR     | DEX     | CON     | INT     | WIS     | CHA     |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
|  8 (+0) | 14 (+1) | 10 (+0) | 10 (+0) |  8 (+0) |  8 (+0) |

**Saves** Physical 15, Evasion 14, Mental 15, Luck 15

**Skills** Stab 2, Shoot 2, Sneak 2

**Move** 30 ft.

**Morale** 7 (9 with leader)

## Attacks

***Scimitar.*** +3 (Stab 2 DEX +1), reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6+1 slashing damage.

***Shortbow.*** +3 (Shoot 2 DEX +1), range 80/320 ft., one target. Hit: 1d6+1 piercing damage.
</pre>

It looks not too bad. The _Nimble Escape_ vanished for now, the _Senses_ (especially Passive Perception) too. Should I really bring in the _Challenge_?

Let us look at a Centaur :

<pre>
# Centaur

*Large monstrosity, neutral good*

**Armor Class** 12

**Hit Points** 45 (6d10+12)

**Morale** 8

**Speed** 50 ft.

| STR     | DEX     | CON     | INT    | WIS     | CHA     |
|---------|---------|---------|--------|---------|---------|
| 18 (+4) | 14 (+2) | 14 (+2) | 9 (-1) | 13 (+1) | 11 (+0) |

**Skills** Athletics +6, Perception +3, Survival +3

**Senses** passive Perception 13

**Languages** Elvish, Sylvan

**Challenge** 2 (450 XP)

***Charge.*** If the centaur moves at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a pike attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 10 (3d6) piercing damage.

## Actions

***Multiattack.*** The centaur makes two attacks: one with its pike and one with its hooves or two with its longbow.

***Pike.*** *Melee Weapon Attack:* +6 to hit, reach 10 ft., one target. *Hit:* 9 (1d10+4) piercing damage.

***Hooves.*** *Melee Weapon Attack:* +6 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. *Hit:* 11 (2d6+4) bludgeoning damage.

***Longbow.*** *Ranged Weapon Attack:* +4 to hit, range 150/600 ft., one target. *Hit:* 6 (1d8+2) piercing damage.
</pre>

Converted:

<pre>
## Centaur

*Large monstrosity, neutral good*

**Hit Dice** 6 (63 6d8+6)

**Armor Class** 12

| STR     | DEX     | CON     | INT     | WIS     | CHA     |
|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
| 18 (+2) | 14 (+1) | 14 (+1) |  9 (+0) | 13 (+0) | 11 (+0) |

**Saves** Physical 13, Evasion 14, Mental 15, Luck 15

**Skills** Stab 2, Shoot 0, Exert (str) 1, Notice 1, Survive 1

**Move** 50 ft.

**Morale** 8

## Attacks

***Multiattack.*** The centaur makes two attacks: one with its pike and one with its hooves or two with its longbow.

***Pike.*** +4 (Stab 2 STR +2), reach 10 ft., one target. Hit: 1d10+2 piercing damage.

***Hooves.*** +4 (Stab 2 STR +2), reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 2d6+2 bludgeoning damage.

***Longbow.*** +2 (Shoot 0 STR +2), range 150/600 ft., one target. Hit: 1d8+2 piercing damage.
</pre>

Not sure if the _Multiattack_ can stay here. I have to re-read the combat rules. Maybe it can be considered a _focus_.

Two errors (at least). Primo, the _Hooves_ should induce `Punch 2` instead of `Stab 2`. Secundo, the _Longbow_ should induce `Shoot 1 DEX +1` instead of `Shoot 0 STR +2`. Yes, it's nice to have, finally, longbows matched to STR, but well...

The project is at [github.com/jmettraux/5town](https://github.com/jmettraux/5town), with creatures on the [input side](https://github.com/jmettraux/5town/tree/55cac07853be8961fb2cb92a8fad26b2bf11ef6e/sources/creatures) and on the [output side](https://github.com/jmettraux/5town/tree/55cac07853be8961fb2cb92a8fad26b2bf11ef6e/out/creatures).

There is still work to do, but it looks usable. I like that I can reuse the attribute scores and then derive saves and skills.

